---
topic: Raw Material Inventory
source_type: glossary
language: english
keywords: Raw Material Inventory, Råvarelager, material, inventory, production, materials, chain, company, consumption, deliveries
question_type: definition
product_area: Supply Chain Terminology
article_source: Inact Supply Chain Ordbog
term_da: Råvarelager
term_en: Raw Material Inventory
url: https://inact.io/en/glossary/raw-material-inventory/
---

Raw Material Inventory — Danish: Råvarelager
Raw material inventory is the part of the company's stock where unprocessed materials and components are stored until they are to be used in production. A well-functioning raw material inventory ensures stable production processes, minimizes the risk of downtime due to missing materials, and optimizes tied-up capital in the early part of the supply chain.
What is a raw material inventory?
The raw material inventory consists of the materials used as input in production, for example, metal, wood, packaging, or semi-finished goods. The size and composition of the raw material inventory depend on the type of production (for example, make-to-stock or make-to-order), the supplier lead time, and demand.
What is raw material inventory used for?
Raw material inventory is used, among other things, to:
Ensure continuous production:
Acts as a buffer against delays in deliveries or unforeseen increases in consumption.
Create flexibility:
Makes it possible to smooth out variations in deliveries and demand so that production can run stably.
Optimize production efficiency:
Ensures that materials are available when they are needed, which minimizes downtime.
When do you have a raw material inventory?
Raw material inventory is fundamentally used in all manufacturing companies but is particularly important:
When the supplier chain is unstable or has long lead times
For production with high resource consumption
When the company works with Just-in-Time or Lean, and the raw material stock needs to be carefully balanced
During seasonal fluctuations, where raw materials must be purchased well in advance
