---
topic: FIFO (First-In, First-Out)
source_type: glossary
language: english
keywords: FIFO (First-In, First-Out), inventory, first, products, where, obsolete, strategy, value, always
question_type: definition
product_area: Supply Chain Terminology
article_source: Inact Supply Chain Ordbog
term_da: FIFO (First-In, First-Out)
term_en: FIFO (First-In, First-Out)
url: https://inact.io/en/glossary/fifo/
---

FIFO (First-In, First-Out)
FIFO (First-In, First-Out) is a principle within inventory management and logistics. The name itself explains the core of the strategy: the items that first arrive in inventory should also be the first to leave. While it sounds simple, it is a critical discipline for ensuring that a company always delivers fresh, high-quality products while minimizing the risk of financial losses due to obsolescence and waste.
What does FIFO mean?
The principle is about creating a natural and logical flow in inventory.
A simple way to understand FIFO is by looking at a supermarket milk cooler; staff restock from the back so that the oldest cartons are always at the front and sold first.
In supply chain, FIFO works the same way. By consistently using the oldest items first, you ensure that products do not “collect dust” at the back of a shelf until they either expire or become obsolete.
Why is FIFO important in inventory management?
Beyond physical handling, FIFO has a direct and measurable impact on a company’s financial performance and tied-up capital.
The primary benefits of implementing a consistent FIFO strategy include:
Minimization of waste:
Proper inventory rotation reduces the risk of products expiring or becoming obsolete.
Release of capital:
You avoid tying up money in slow-moving or excess inventory that lose value over time.
Higher product quality:
Customers consistently receive the newest and freshest products from inventory, increasing customer satisfaction.
Accurate valuation:
In accounting, FIFO provides a realistic picture of inventory value, as remaining stock is valued at the most recent purchase prices.
When is FIFO the right inventory strategy?
There are several factors to consider when determining whether FIFO is the right approach for your business.
First of all, FIFO is not only for food products. It is the preferred method in many industries where product lifespan or relevance is limited. This may include:
Food and pharmaceuticals:
Where expiration dates are critical for safety and quality.
Fashion and textiles:
Where seasons change, and last year’s models quickly lose value.
Electronics and technology:
Where rapid innovation makes older components obsolete.
Raw materials with risk of degradation:
Chemicals or materials that change properties over time.
