---
topic: Cost-to-serve
source_type: glossary
language: english
keywords: Cost-to-serve, service, costs, order, profitability, chain, customer, supply
question_type: definition
product_area: Supply Chain Terminology
article_source: Inact Supply Chain Ordbog
term_da: Cost-to-serve
term_en: Cost-to-serve
url: https://inact.io/en/glossary/cost-to-serve/
---

Cost-to-serve
Cost-to-serve is a key concept in supply chain management that describes the total cost of serving a customer, a product, or an order. It provides insight into what it actually costs the business to deliver its service and enables more data-driven decision-making.
What is cost-to-serve?
Cost-to-serve includes all direct and indirect costs incurred from order to delivery.
This may include:
Procurement and production costs
Inventory costs and tied-up capital
Picking, packing, and handling
Transportation and distribution
Administration, customer service, and returns handling
Cost-to-serve is typically analyzed at customer, product, or order level and provides a more nuanced view than traditional metrics such as contribution margin alone.
What is cost-to-serve used for?
Cost-to-serve is used to understand where profit is created  and where it is actually lost in the supply chain.
It enables companies to:
Identify customers or products with low or negative profitability
Understand the impact of service requirements such as small orders or frequent deliveries
Support differentiated service levels based on profitability
Optimize pricing, minimum order quantities, and delivery terms
Make more informed decisions about assortment and customer segments
For many companies, cost-to-serve reveals that high revenue does not necessarily mean high profitability.
When is cost-to-serve relevant?
Cost-to-serve is particularly relevant when a company experiences pressure on margins or increasing complexity in the supply chain.
It is often relevant when:
There are large differences in customers’ ordering and delivery patterns
Service levels are high, but profitability is low
Logistics and inventory costs are rising without a clear explanation
There are many exceptions and manual processes in order handling
In these situations, cost-to-serve provides the necessary overview to prioritize effectively.
How do you work with cost-to-serve?
Working with cost-to-serve requires access to reliable data across functions.
Typically, this involves:
Collecting data from sales, inventory, logistics, and finance
Allocating costs to customers, products, or orders
Analyzing differences in service requirements and behavior
Identifying improvement opportunities
Adjusting processes, service levels, or commercial terms
When used actively, cost-to-serve becomes a strategic tool for reducing complexity and improving overall supply chain profitability.
