---
topic: Excess inventory (overstock)
source_type: glossary
language: english
keywords: Excess inventory (overstock), Overskudslager (overlager), inventory, excess, demand, products, stock, quantities, safety, capital
question_type: definition
product_area: Supply Chain Terminology
article_source: Inact Supply Chain Ordbog
term_da: Overskudslager (overlager)
term_en: Excess inventory (overstock)
url: https://inact.io/en/glossary/excess-inventory/
---

Excess inventory (overstock) — Danish: Overskudslager
Excess inventory, also referred to as overstock, occurs when a company holds more inventory than needed to meet expected demand, including an appropriate safety stock. In other words, it’s the right products — just in quantities that are too high.
What is excess inventory?
Excess inventory is the portion of stock that exceeds the optimal level required to meet demand. It can include raw materials, components, work-in-progress (WIP), and finished goods.
It differs from obsolete or distressed inventory in that the products are still in demand and can be sold at full price. The issue with excess inventory is the volume — not the product itself.
Why does excess inventory occur?
Excess inventory is rarely the result of a single mistake. It typically arises when demand forecasts are too optimistic, when supplier minimum order quantities (MOQs) exceed short-term demand, or when safety stock levels are set too high.
Underlying all of this is often a lack of coordination between sales, procurement, and production.
What are the consequences of excess inventory?
Excess inventory ties up capital and puts pressure on profitability — and the consequences go further than most expect:
Tied-up capital:
Cash tied up in excess inventory cannot be used for other investments or operational needs
Increased holding costs: Storage, insurance, and handling costs remain — regardless of whether the products are moving
Risk of obsolescence:
The longer products sit, the higher the risk that excess inventory turns into a permanent loss in value
How do you reduce excess inventory?
It starts with better data.
Improved demand forecasting and regular reviews of reorder points, safety stock, and order quantities are the foundation.
In addition, negotiating more flexible supply agreements with suppliers and ensuring tighter coordination across sales, procurement, and production makes a significant difference.
