---
topic: Supplier consolidation
source_type: glossary
language: english
keywords: Supplier consolidation, Leverandørkonsolidering, supplier, consolidation, suppliers, purchasing, delivery, procurement, company, complexity
question_type: definition
product_area: Supply Chain Terminology
article_source: Inact Supply Chain Ordbog
term_da: Leverandørkonsolidering
term_en: Supplier consolidation
url: https://inact.io/en/glossary/supplier-consolidation/
---

Supplier consolidation — Danish: Leverandørkonsolidering
Supplier consolidation is a strategic approach within procurement and supply chain management, where a company reduces the number of suppliers to create greater overview, lower complexity, and better purchasing conditions. The goal is to concentrate purchasing volume with fewer suppliers and thereby strengthen both efficiency and negotiating power.
What is supplier consolidation?
Supplier consolidation means that the company deliberately chooses to work with fewer suppliers within the same product or category.
Instead of purchasing similar products from many different suppliers, procurement is consolidated with selected partners who can cover a larger share of demand. This typically creates better structure in the purchasing process and more consistent agreements.
Consolidation is not necessarily about choosing the cheapest supplier, but about finding the right balance between price, delivery reliability, flexibility, and risk.
What is supplier consolidation used for?
Supplier consolidation is used to reduce complexity and create more robust procurement processes.
Typical applications include:
Reduction of administrative costs through fewer supplier relationships
Stronger negotiating power through higher consolidated purchasing volumes
More consistent pricing, terms, and delivery conditions
Greater transparency in procurement, inventory, and forecasting
Improved delivery reliability through closer collaboration with key suppliers
For many small and medium-sized companies, supplier consolidation is an important step toward a more mature and professional supply chain.
When does supplier consolidation make sense?
Supplier consolidation is particularly relevant when a company experiences high complexity in procurement or lacks overview of its supplier base.
It may be relevant if:
There are many suppliers with overlapping assortments
Purchasing volumes are fragmented and difficult to manage
A disproportionate amount of time is spent on administration
Delivery reliability varies across suppliers
Purchase prices do not reflect total volume
Simultaneously, it is important to be aware of the risks of excessive consolidation, where dependency on individual suppliers can become too high.
How do you work with supplier consolidation in practice?
Work on supplier consolidation typically starts with an analysis of existing suppliers and purchasing data.
The process often includes:
Mapping suppliers and purchasing volumes per category
Identifying overlapping suppliers and products
Evaluating supplier performance in terms of price, delivery, and quality
Selecting strategic suppliers
Ongoing follow-up to ensure consolidation supports both operations and business objectives
