---
topic: Minimum order quantity (MOQ)
source_type: glossary
language: english
keywords: Minimum order quantity (MOQ), Minimum ordremængde (MOQ), inventory, order, suppliers, costs, minimum, quantity, capital, impact
question_type: definition
product_area: Supply Chain Terminology
article_source: Inact Supply Chain Ordbog
term_da: Minimum ordremængde (MOQ)
term_en: Minimum order quantity (MOQ)
url: https://inact.io/en/glossary/minimum-order-quantity-moq/
---

Minimum order quantity (MOQ) — Danish: Minimum ordremængde
Minimum order quantity (MOQ) is a key parameter in supply chain management and procurement planning. The concept refers to the quantity constraints set by suppliers for transactions, which directly impact a company’s inventory turnover and tied-up capital.
What is a minimum order quantity (MOQ)?
Minimum order quantity (MOQ) defines the smallest quantity of a product that a supplier is willing to sell in a single order. This requirement is standard practice across many industries and has a significant impact on inventory management, tied-up capital, and operational flexibility.
There are typically two main types of MOQ:
Single-item MOQ:
The minimum quantity required for a specific
SKU.
Order-level MOQ:
The minimum total quantity or value for an entire order, regardless of the number of different SKUs.
Why do suppliers set MOQ requirements?
Suppliers establish minimum order quantities for several strategic and operational reasons, primarily to ensure profitability in their own operations:
Economies of scale in production: It is often more cost-efficient to produce in larger batches. MOQ ensures efficient production runs and lowers unit costs.
Setup costs:
Each production run or order involves fixed setup costs (e.g. machine setup, documentation). MOQ helps distribute these costs across more units.
Logistics and transportation:
It is typically more economical to transport larger volumes, as freight and handling costs can be similar regardless of shipment size.
Raw material purchasing: Suppliers may themselves be subject to MOQs from their own suppliers, which they pass on to customers.
What impact does MOQ have on your inventory management?
Minimum order quantities have a direct—and often significant—impact on inventory management and financial performance. A high MOQ can lead to:
Increased tied-up capital:
The company is forced to purchase more than immediately needed, tying up capital in inventory and affecting cash flow.
Risk of excess inventory:
If purchased volumes exceed actual demand, excess inventory arises, along with storage costs, insurance, and risk of obsolescence.
Reduced inventory turnover:
Products remain in stock longer before being sold, indicating inefficient use of capital.
Space constraints:
Larger purchase volumes require more storage space, which can be a challenge for companies with limited capacity.
How do you manage and negotiate MOQ?
Although MOQ may seem fixed, there are several strategies companies can use to reduce its negative impact:
Negotiation:
Engage in dialogue with suppliers. Some may accept smaller orders at a higher unit price or within strategic partnerships.
Order consolidation:
Combine purchases across departments or projects to meet MOQ requirements collectively.
Alternative suppliers:
Explore suppliers with lower MOQ - even if it means a higher unit price.
Inventory optimization: Implement systems to improve forecasting and optimize reorder points, reducing the risk of excess inventory when meeting MOQ.
Standardization:
Where possible, standardize components across products to increase volume per item and make it easier to meet MOQ.
Effective management of MOQ is essential to maintaining a healthy balance between procurement costs, tied-up capita l, and delivery performance in the supply chain.
