---
topic: Customer profitability
source_type: glossary
language: english
keywords: Customer profitability, Kundelønsomhed, customer, profitability, customers, costs, cost-to-serve, service, associated, understanding
question_type: definition
product_area: Supply Chain Terminology
article_source: Inact Supply Chain Ordbog
term_da: Kundelønsomhed
term_en: Customer profitability
url: https://inact.io/en/glossary/customer-profitability/
---

Customer profitability — Danish: Kundelønsomhed
Customer profitability is a key business concept that defines the actual profit a customer contributes to a company over a given period, after all costs associated with serving that customer have been deducted.
What is customer profitability?
Simply put, customer profitability is about the relationship between revenue and the total costs associated with serving a customer.
It is about understanding which customers create the most value for the business—and which may cost more to serve than they generate.
So, instead of only looking at the revenue associated with a customer, the focus is on the underlying costs involved in acquiring, selling to, and servicing that specific customer.
Why is it relevant to analyze your customers’ profitability?
Understanding the profitability of each customer is essential for strategic decision-making and a prerequisite for optimizing the company’s overall profitability.
A clear understanding of customer profitability enables:
Efficient resource allocation:
Companies can focus sales and marketing efforts on the most profitable customer segments, ensuring a higher return on investment.
Improved customer service and loyalty:
By differentiating service levels based on customer profitability, companies can ensure that high-value customers receive the attention and service they require—without overservicing less profitable customers. This strengthens loyalty among the most important customers.
Optimization of pricing and discounts:
Insight into customer profitability provides a solid foundation for adjusting pricing and discount structures so they reflect the true value of the customer relationship and maximize margins.
Targeted product and service development:
Companies can develop and tailor products and services specifically for the most profitable customer segments, increasing market penetration and customer satisfaction.
Proactive risk management:
Identifying customers that drain resources or pose financial risk makes it possible to implement strategies to improve their profitability—or, if necessary, phase out unprofitable relationships.
What is the relationship between customer profitability and cost-to-serve?
Cost-to-serve (CTS) is a central component in calculating customer profitability.
While customer profitability provides the overall picture of a customer’s financial value, cost-to-serve is the detailed breakdown of the specific costs associated with delivering products and services to that customer.
A high cost-to-serve can significantly reduce a customer’s profitability even if the customer generates substantial revenue. Understanding CTS is therefore essential for optimizing customer profitability.
Several factors influence cost-to-serve and therefore have a direct impact on customer profitability, for example:
Order size and frequency:
Customers placing many small, frequent orders are often more expensive to serve per unit than customers placing fewer but larger orders.
Delivery requirements and complexity:
Specific delivery windows, urgent orders, deliveries to remote locations, or special packaging requirements can significantly increase logistics costs.
Product mix:
Customers ordering a wide range of SKUs (Stock Keeping Units) or customized products can lead to higher inventory and picking costs.
Return rates and claims:
A high return rate or frequent claims increase costs related to reverse logistics, administration, and customer service.
Customer support needs:
Customers requiring frequent or extensive support, technical assistance, or having many inquiries will naturally be more costly to serve..
