---
topic: Purchase-to-order (PTO)
source_type: glossary
language: english
keywords: Purchase-to-order (PTO), Indkøb til ordre (purchase to order), purchase-to-order, inventory, customer, capital, order, products, supplier, tied-up
question_type: definition
product_area: Supply Chain Terminology
article_source: Inact Supply Chain Ordbog
term_da: Indkøb til ordre (purchase to order)
term_en: Purchase-to-order (PTO)
url: https://inact.io/en/glossary/purchase-to-order/
---

Purchase-to-order (PTO) — Danish: Indkøb til ordre
Purchase-to-order is a procurement strategy where goods are only purchased from the supplier once a customer order has been received. The purpose of this strategy is to minimize tied-up capital and reduce the risk of excess inventory by only acquiring goods that are already sold.
What is purchase-to-order?
Purchase-to-order (PTO) means that the procurement process is triggered directly by a customer order. In this model, goods are not held as finished inventory in the company’s warehouse; instead, they are purchased specifically for each individual order or customer.
This strategy is particularly common in companies that deal with:
Customized products: Items configured specifically for each customer.
Low-volume products: Items that are sold infrequently and are therefore expensive to stock.
High assortment complexity:
Where it is physically or economically impractical to hold all variants in inventory.
When is purchase-to-order used?
The choice of a purchase-to-order strategy depends on product characteristics and customer expectations. It is typically relevant when:
Demand is unpredictable:
When accurate forecasting is difficult, PTO protects against over-purchasing.
Products have high value:
For expensive items, the cost of tied-up capital in inventory is significant.
High risk of obsolescence:
For products with short lifecycles or rapidly changing trends (e.g. high-end electronics or fashion).
Project-based sales:
Where procurement is tied to a specific project or contract.
What are the advantages of purchase-to-order?
The main advantage of purchase-to-order is low tied-up capital. Since the company does not own the product until it is sold, there is no need to build inventory, freeing up liquidity for other purposes.
Other key advantages include:
No risk of excess inventory:
You only buy what is needed, eliminating the need for write-downs.
Broader assortment:
The company can offer a wide range of products without increasing inventory costs.
High flexibility:
Easier to adapt to customer-specific needs and changes in the market.
What should you be aware of with purchase-to-order?
While PTO eliminates inventory risk, it shifts the pressure to supply chain speed and reliability.
Companies should pay particular attention to:
Longer lead times:
Customers must accept waiting for both supplier lead time and transportation.
Supplier dependency:
Delivery performance is fully dependent on supplier reliability and accuracy.
Administrative costs:
Each order requires individual handling and follow-up, increasing administrative effort per unit.
Coordination requirements:
Close collaboration between sales, procurement, and logistics is needed to ensure timely delivery.
What is the difference between purchase-to-order and purchase-to-stock?
Purchase-to-order is based on actual customer orders, while purchase-to-stock is based on forecasts and inventory buildup.
The choice between the two is about finding the right balance between lead time, flexibility, and tied-up capital in the supply chain.
Purchase-to-order
Purchase-to-stock
Trigger
Actual customer order
Demand and forecasts
Tied-up capital
Minimal to none
High
Lead time
Longer (depends on supplier)
Very short (from stock)
Focus
Flexibility and liquidity
Service level and fast delivery
