---
topic: Tied-up capital in inventory
source_type: glossary
language: english
keywords: Tied-up capital in inventory, Lagerbinding, capital, inventory, tied-up, stock, refers, goods, invested, longer
question_type: definition
product_area: Supply Chain Terminology
article_source: Inact Supply Chain Ordbog
term_da: Lagerbinding
term_en: Tied-up capital in inventory
url: https://inact.io/en/glossary/tied-up-capital-in-inventory/
---

Tied-up capital in inventory — Danish: Lagerbinding
Tied-up capital in inventory refers to the capital you have invested in your stock i.e. the value of goods that you have not yet sold. This can include raw materials, work-in-progress, or finished goods.
What is tied-up capital in inventory?
Tied-up capital in inventory refers to the financial value of the goods you have in stock. Each item represents an investment of capital that cannot be used for other purposes.
Capital is tied up in a product from the moment it is purchased or produced and remains tied up until the product is sold and paid for by the customer. The longer a product stays in inventory, the longer the capital is tied up.
What affects tied-up capital in inventory?
Tied-up capital in inventory changes continuously and is influenced by several factors, such as:
How much inventory you hold:
The more stock you have, the more capital is tied up.
How fast your products sell
(inventory turnover):
The slower the products move, the longer capital remains tied up.
How you procure:
Large purchase volumes (e.g. to secure discounts or due to high
MOQ requirements) increase inventory levels and tied-up capital.
Supplier agreements:
Long lead times often require higher safety stock levels.
How do you reduce tied-up capital in inventory?
Reducing tied-up capital in inventory is about freeing up capital without creating service issues that ultimately impact your customers.
It is rarely a one-time fix, but rather an ongoing optimization process, which may include:
Reducing safety stock where possible
Removing or reducing slow-moving items
Reviewing planning parameters: Can you order smaller quantities more frequently at an acceptable cost?
The goal is not to minimize inventory at all costs, but to have the right inventory.
An Double ABC analysis can be useful here.
What is the difference between tied-up capital in inventory and tied-up capital?
The terms tied-up capital and tied-up capital in inventory are often used interchangeably, but there is a subtle difference:
Tied-up capital in inventory:
Refers specifically to capital invested in inventory. It is a subset of tied-up capital.
Tied-up capital:
Refers to all capital invested in a company’s assets, such as buildings, machinery, and inventory.
