---
topic: Purchasing Strategy
source_type: glossary
language: english
keywords: Purchasing Strategy, Indkøbsstrategi, purchasing, strategy, management, goals, supplier, suppliers, analysis, collaboration
question_type: definition
product_area: Supply Chain Terminology
article_source: Inact Supply Chain Ordbog
term_da: Indkøbsstrategi
term_en: Purchasing Strategy
url: https://inact.io/en/glossary/purchasing-strategy/
---

Purchasing Strategy — Danish: Indkøbsstrategi
A purchasing strategy is the company's overall plan for how to acquire goods and services in the most efficient and value-creating way. The strategy includes selecting suppliers, purchasing volumes, timing, contract management, and risk management with the goal of optimizing costs, quality, delivery capability, and tied-up capital.
What is a Purchasing Strategy?
A purchasing strategy is a systematic approach to managing the company's procurement. It translates overall business goals (for example, growth) into concrete actions and decisions within the purchasing department.
A purchasing strategy typically includes::
Supplier Selection and Management:
Defining criteria for the selection, evaluation, and collaboration with suppliers.
Purchasing Methods:
E.g., spot buying, contract purchasing, or framework agreements.
Price and Payment Strategies:
Setting goals for costs, discounts, payment terms, and total cost of ownership.
Risk Management:
Identifying and managing supplier risks, capacity bottlenecks, and price fluctuations.
Volume and Timing Management:
Determining when and how much to buy to optimize inventory and liquidity.
What is a Purchasing Strategy used for?
A purchasing strategy helps create structure, overview, and targeted action in procurement work:
Optimize costs:
Reduce expenses through better contracts, volume utilization, and total cost of ownership.
Ensure delivery reliability:
Ensure that critical goods are always available, without superfluous inventory.
Improve supplier collaboration:
Build relationships that create quality, flexibility, and innovation.
Reduce risk:
Manage fluctuations in prices, supply, and capacity in a structured manner.
Support strategic goals:
Align purchasing with the company's overall goals for growth, margin, and service level.
How is a Purchasing Strategy developed?
Developing an effective purchasing strategy requires both data insight and a strategic overview:
Analysis of spend and suppliers:
Identifying where money is spent (spend analysis), which suppliers are critical, and where there are opportunities for improvement.
Segmentation of goods:
For example, using an
ABC analysis to prioritize resources and focus.
Strategic goal setting:
Defining the desired service level, cost targets, and risk profile.
Method selection:
Evaluating contract forms, purchasing methods, and supplier collaboration.
Implementation and monitoring:
Implementing the strategy in systems and following KPIs to ensure it creates the desired effect.
