---
topic: Just-in-Time (JIT)
source_type: glossary
language: english
keywords: Just-in-Time (JIT), production, inventory, capital, costs, where, demand, just-in-time, minimize
question_type: definition
product_area: Supply Chain Terminology
article_source: Inact Supply Chain Ordbog
term_da: Just-in-Time (JIT)
term_en: Just-in-Time (JIT)
url: https://inact.io/en/glossary/just-in-time/
---

Just-in-Time (JIT)
Just-in-Time (JIT) is a production and inventory strategy within Supply Chain Management where goods and materials arrive precisely when they are needed instead of being stored in inventory for long periods. JIT is a cornerstone of the Lean philosophy and aims to eliminate waste, minimize inventory costs, and free up capital without compromising the production flow.
What is Just-In-Time?
JIT is a strategy where production is controlled by actual demand - production only occurs when there is a need. This differs from traditional production, where goods are produced in advance based on sales expectations.
JIT requires:
Precise planning:
To predict the exact time of need.
Close collaboration with suppliers:
To ensure frequent, small, and reliable deliveries.
Continuous monitoring:
Of production and demand to react quickly to changes.
Why is JIT used
?
JIT is used to maximize efficiency and minimize waste throughout the entire value chain.
The strategy helps companies to:
Reduce inventory levels and costs:
Frees up capital and minimizes costs for storage space, insurance, and obsolescence.
Improve cash flow:
Due to lower capital tied up in inventory.
Increase flexibility:
Makes production more responsive to changes in demand and allows for quicker shifts between products.
Expose bottlenecks:
Since there are no large inventories to hide problems, JIT forces the company to continuously identify and eliminate inefficiency.
When can Just-In-Time be relevant?
JIT is primarily used in Lean Manufacturing and logistics, where close coordination with suppliers is possible.
It can be relevant when you want to:
Minimize inventory costs and obsolescence.
Reduce waste and overproduction.
Improve cash flow through lower tied-up capital .
Work with stable and predictable suppliers: JIT is very sensitive to delays and therefore requires extremely reliable partners.
