---
topic: Product profitability
source_type: glossary
language: english
keywords: Product profitability, Produktlønsomhed, product, profitability, costs, actual, capital, chain, factors, inventory
question_type: definition
product_area: Supply Chain Terminology
article_source: Inact Supply Chain Ordbog
term_da: Produktlønsomhed
term_en: Product profitability
url: https://inact.io/en/glossary/product-profitability/
---

Product profitability — Danish: Produktlønsomhed
Product profitability refers to the actual profit a specific product contributes to the company’s bottom line after all costs have been accounted for.
In supply chain management, understanding product profitability is critical, as it reveals the difference between a product’s revenue and its actual value creation. This insight makes it possible for companies to identify which products drive the business forward—and which ones actually cost money to keep in stock.
What does product profitability mean?
Simply put, product profitability is about the relationship between revenue and the total costs associated with a specific item.
In practice, many companies only look at contribution margin (sales price minus purchase cost), but true profitability is only visible when “hidden” supply chain costs are included.
It is about looking at the entire journey of the product — from the moment it is ordered from the supplier until it is delivered and paid for by the customer. Only by including factors such as tied-up capital in inventory, transportation, and handling do you get the true picture of the product’s financial contribution.
What factors influence a product’s profitability?
The list of factors may vary depending on industry and processes. However, to understand the true profitability of a product, there are typically several key cost drivers to consider:
Tied-up capital and inventory costs:
How much liquidity is tied up in the product, and what does it cost to store it in terms of warehouse space and insurance?
Logistics and transportation:
Costs such as freight, duties, and handling, which can vary significantly from product to product.
Operational costs:
The time and resources required to receive, pick, and pack the product.
Risk of obsolescence:
The cost of items that must be written down or discarded due to obsolescence or expired shelf life.
Service requirements:
The resources needed to maintain the required safety stock l evels to meet customer expectations.
Why is it relevant to analyze product profitability?
When you understand the true profitability of each
SKU, your focus shifts from pure volume to actual results.
This insight is necessary to:
Optimize the assortment:
Make data-driven decisions to remove unprofitable items and make room for the most profitable ones.
Adjust pricing:
Ensure that prices reflect the true supply chain costs, so each transaction contributes positively.
Prioritize purchasing and warehouse space:
Allocate resources and capacity to the most profitable products that create the most value.
Improve cash flow:
Reduce inventory of low-profit items and free up capital for growth and new investments.
