---
topic: Change Log
source_type: glossary
language: english
keywords: Change Log, Ændringslog, change, chain, supply, changed, inventory, systems, control, deviations
question_type: definition
product_area: Supply Chain Terminology
article_source: Inact Supply Chain Ordbog
term_da: Ændringslog
term_en: Change Log
url: https://inact.io/en/glossary/change-log/
---

Change Log — Danish: Ændringslog
A change log is a systematic record of all significant changes in processes, products, plans, or systems. In a complex supply chain, a change log is crucial for ensuring traceability, accountability, and transparency when, for example, master data, inventory policies, or supplier agreements are updated. It functions as the organization's memory.
What is a change log?
A change log documents the four central questions:
What was changed
When did it happen
Who made the change
Why was it necessary
It can cover everything from an adjustment to a product's reorder point, an update to a supplier's lead time, to a change in a production plan. The purpose is to create an audit trail that minimizes errors, prevents misunderstandings, and ensures that everyone in the supply chain works from the same, correct data.
Why is a change log important in the supply chain?
A change log is used to:
Ensure full traceability and documentation, e.g., for quality control or recalls.
Minimize the risk of costly errors in production, inventory, and purchasing that arise due to outdated data.
Support compliance requirements (e.g., ISO standards) and facilitate internal and external audits.
Analyze causes of deviations and identify patterns that can be used for process improvement.
When is a Change Log used?
A change log is not only for large projects but is a continuous tool in daily operations. It is especially critical for:
Implementation of new processes, products, or IT systems
Ongoing adjustments to master data such as inventory or purchasing parameters
Version control of important documents such as quality manuals or standard operating procedures (SOPs)
Troubleshooting and follow-up on unexpected events or deviations in the supply chain.
How is a change log created?
A simple change log can be maintained in a spreadsheet, but for professional and scalable use, it is typically an integrated part of systems such as ERP, WMS, SCM, or other specialized platforms.
An effective log contains at least:
Timestamp:
Precise date and time of the change
Object:
What was changed (e.g., item number, customer ID)
Description:
A clear explanation of the change (e.g., "Reorder point changed from 50 to 60 units")
Responsible:
The person or system that made the change
Reason:
The justification for the change (e.g., "Based on new sales forecast")
