---
topic: Service level
source_type: glossary
language: english
keywords: Service level, Servicegrad, level, service, customer, company, inventory, important, improving, orders
question_type: definition
product_area: Supply Chain Terminology
article_source: Inact Supply Chain Ordbog
term_da: Servicegrad
term_en: Service level
url: https://inact.io/en/glossary/service-level/
---

Service level — Danish: Servicegrad
Service level is a measure of how well a company meets customer demand. It shows the proportion of orders that can be delivered on time and in the requested quantity, and is a key indicator of both customer satisfaction and supply chain efficiency.
What is service level?
Service level typically expresses the ratio between fulfilled orders and the total number of orders.
A high service level means that the company delivers what the customer ordered, when the customer expects it.
A low service level indicates the opposite. It means the company more frequently experiences stockouts, delays, or incomplete deliveries, which can impact both customer satisfaction and revenue.
The concept is used both at product level and across the entire business, and is closely linked to inventory management and planning.
Why is service level important?
Service level has a direct impact on customer experience and the company’s competitiveness.
A high service level helps ensure:
Increased customer satisfaction through reliable deliveries
Stronger customer relationships – improved trust and loyalty
More efficient resource utilization – better planning of inventory and production
Lower risk of lost sales – fewer stockouts lead to higher revenue
However, it is important to note that a very high service level often requires larger inventories and higher safety stock, which can increase tied-up capital and inventory costs.
Therefore, service level should always be considered alongside other factors such as inventory value, cash flow, and cost efficiency to find the right balance between customer service and resource utilization.
How do you improve service level?
Improving service level requires a holistic view of the supply chain and the underlying processes.
Typical initiatives include:
Optimizing inventory levels and safety stock
Improving forecasting and demand planning
More efficient production and logistics planningOngoing performance monitoring through KPIs and proactive actions
It is important to remain aware that improving service level impacts other parts of the business, ensuring that optimization supports the company’s overall objectives.
Back to the glossa ry
